State overview ------2000 word minimum
Andaman & Nicobar Islands
Arunachal Pradesh
Assam
Bihar
Chandigarh
Chhattisgarh
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Daman and Diu
Goa
Gujarat
Himachal Pradesh
Jammu & Kashmir
Jharkhand
Karnataka
Kerala
Lakshadweep
Madhya Pradesh
Maharashtra
Manipur
Meghalaya
Mizoram
Nagaland
Orissa/ Odisha
Pondicherry/ Puducherry
Sikkim
Tripura
Uttar Pradesh
Uttarakhand
West Bengal


------------------
Uttar Pradesh, a land where cultures have evolved and religions emerge. It is the most populous state in the Republic of India as well as the most populous country subdivision in the world. Lucknow is the capital city of Uttar Pradesh. The main ethnic group is the Hindi people, forming the demographic plurality. Area wise it is the fourth largest State of India. On 9 November 2000, a new state, Uttarakhand, was carved out from the Himalayan hill region of Uttar Pradesh. It plays an important role in the politics, education, culture, industry, agriculture and tourism of India.
The state is bordered by Rajasthan to the west, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi to the northwest, Uttarakhand and Nepal to the north, Bihar to the east, Madhya Pradesh to the south, and touches the states of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh to the southeast. It is Garlanded by two pious rivers the Ganga and Yamuna. 
The state has several historical, natural, and religious tourist destinations, such as, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, Kaushambi, Ballia, Shravasti, Gorakhpur, Chauri Chaura, Kushinagar, Lucknow, Jhansi, Bareilly, Budaun, Meerut, Mathura and Shahjahanpur.
The state has the largest railway network in the country and the sixth highest railway density. Allahabad is the headquarters of the North Central Railway and Gorakhpur is the headquarters of the North Eastern Railway. Other than Zonal Headquarters of Allahabad and Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Moradabad serve as divisional Headquarters of the Northern Railway Division.
The state has a large, multimodal transportation system with the largest road network in the country. The state is well connected to its nine neighbouring states and almost all other parts of India through the national highways (NH).
This festival is organised on a larger scale every 12th year and is called the Kumbha Mela on banks of the Ganges at Allahabad, where over 10 million Hindu pilgrims congregate in one of the largest gatherings of people in the world. The historically important towns of Sarnath and Kushinagar are near to gorakhpur and Varanasi.
Uttar Pradesh gives access to three World Heritage Sites: the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, and the nearby Fatehpur Sikri. Varanasi is an ancient city famous for its ghats. Lucknow has several beautiful historical monuments.








  Overview-----
Varanasi, or Banaras, (also known as Kashi) is one of the oldest living cities in the world. Varanasi's Prominence in Hindu mythology is virtually unrevealed. Along the city's winding streets are some 2,000 temples, including Kashi Vishwanath, the ""Golden Temple," dedicated to the Hindu god Shiva. Varanasi grew as an important industrial centre, famous for its muslin and silk fabrics, perfumes, ivory works, and sculpture. The city's religious importance continued to grow in the 8th century, when Adi Shankara established the worship of Shiva as an official sect of Varanasi.

Varanasi has been a cultural centre of North India for several thousand years, and is closely associated with the Ganges. Hindus believe that death in the city will bring salvation, making it a major centre for pilgrimage. The city is known worldwide for its many ghats, embankments made in steps of stone slabs along the river bank where pilgrims perform ritual ablutions. 

Banaras is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend and looks twice as old as all of them put together (Mark Twain, the English author and literature)

History---------
According to legend, Varanasi was founded by the god Shiva. There happened a fight between the two supreme gods, Brahma and Shiva, and the succeeding combat resulted in one of the four heads of Brahma being torn off by Shiva. It was a custom of the time that the victor carried the slain adversary’s head in his hand and let it hang down from his hand as an act of ignominy and a sign of his own bravery. A bridle was also put into the mouth. Shiva thus dishonored Brahma's head, and kept it with him at all times. When he came to the city of Varanasi in this state, the hanging head of Brahma dropped from Shiva's hand and disappeared in the ground. The land of Varanasi is therefore considered an extremely holy religious site.[9]

The Pandavas, the mythic protagonists of the Hindu epic Mahabharata, are said to have visited the city in search of Shiva to atone for their sin of fratricide and Brahmanahatya that they had committed during the climactic Kurukshetra War.[10] It is regarded as one of seven holy cities (Sapta Puri) which can provide Moksha; Ayodhya, Mathura, Bodh Gaya, Kashi, Kanchi, Avanti, and Dvaraka are the seven cities known as the givers of liberation.







-------------Ramnagar Fort
The Ramnagar Fort is located near the Ganga River on its eastern bank, opposite to the Tulsi Ghat varanasi India. The sandstone structure was built in the Mughal style by Kashi Naresh Raja Balwant Singh in 1750. The current king and the resident of the fort is Anant Narayan Singh, who is also known as the Maharaja of Varanasi even though this royal title has been finished since 1971. The fort is built in creamy-coloured chunar sandstone.  The Ramnagar fort has a temple and a museum within the grounds and the temple is dedicated to Ved Vyasa, who wrote Mahabharata, the great Indian epic. 

The Ramnagar fort houses a museum displaying the Royal collection which includes vintage Cars, Royal palkies, an armory of swords and old guns, ivory work and antique clocks. The Durga Temple and Chhinnamastika Temple are also Located at Ramnagar. A temple of Dakshin Mukhi Hanuman is there. Inside the giant walls of the Ramnagar fort-palace, there is a big clock. This clock not only displays year, month, week and day but also astronomical facts about the sun, moon and constellation of stars. An interesting array of ornate palanquins, gold-plated howdahs and weapons are some of the artifacts on display in the Ramnagar fort-palace museum.

There is a minimum entry charge per person whether he is an adult(Rs.15) or child(Rs.10).
----------Dashashwamedh Ghat
The Dashashwamedh Ghat is the main and probably the oldest ghat of Varanasi located on the Ganges, close to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. It is believed that Brahma created this ghat to welcome Shiva and sacrificed ten horses during the Dasa-Ashwamedha yajna performed there. Above and adjacent to this ghat, there are also temples dedicated to Sulatankesvara, Brahmesvara, Varahesvara, Abhaya Vinayaka, Ganga (the Ganges), and Bandi Devi, which are all important pilgrimage sites. A group of priests perform "Agni Pooja" daily in the evening at this ghat as a dedication to Shiva, Ganga, Surya (Sun), Agni (Fire), and the entire universe. Special aartis are held on Tuesdays and on religious festivals.

Kashi Vishwanath Temple---------
Kashi Vishwanath Temple is one of the most famous temple in Varanasi, also known as the Golden temple dedicated to the Lord Shiva, located in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India. The temple stands on the western bank of the holy river Ganga, and is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas, the holiest of Shiva temples. Kashi Vishwanath Temple is a core of faith for millions of Hindus.
Aarti time:
Mangala Aarti : 3 AM- 4 AM (Morning)
Bhog Aarti : 11.15 AM to 12.20 PM (Day)
Sandhya Aarti : 7 PM to 8.15 PM (Evening)
Shringar Aarti : 9 PM to 10.15 PM (Night)
Shayan Aarti : 10.30 PM – 11 PM (Night)
On special festivals such as Shivaratri, the king of Kashi (Kashi Naresh) comes to the temple for worship during which nobody else is allowed to enter the temple premises. Devotees are allowed only after the king has concluded his prayers. Being one of the most famous temples of Varanasi, the temple witnesses around 3,000 devotees on daily basis and the footfall increases to 1,00,000 on special occasions.

The city of Varanasi, the cultural capital of India, is thus known as the city of Lord Shiva.

-----BHARAT MATA MANDIR--------
The Bharat Mata Temple is located at the Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth campus, Varanasi and dedicated to the Bharat Mata (Mother India). It was constructed by the Babu Shiv Prasad Gupt and inaugurated by the Mahatma Gandhi in the year 1936. The statue of the Mother India is made up of the marble and looks like a model which symbolizes the entire India, represents mountain, plains and oceans of the India. The most peculiar thing about the Bharat Mata Temple is that instead of the customary gods and goddesses, it houses a relief map of India, carved out of marble.

Bharat Mata Temple is a unique, has an attractive and huge map of the Mother India on the ground denoting the statue of mother of India. The statue has inimitable design which indicates the Goddess of India for all the religious deities, freedom fighters and leaders. The temple is a kind of admiration to all those who take part in the formation of India as it was built before the partition of the India.

opening time - 9.30 AM - 8:00 PM
Entry fee - Free.

New Vishwanath Temple-------
The new Vishwanath temple is one of the most famous temples and biggest tourist attractions in the holy city of Varanasi, located in the premises of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). It is also called the Birla temple as the famous industrialist family of India, the Birlas, constructed it. The New Vishwanath Temple is dedicated to lord Shiva and is a replica of the original Vishwanath temple. The temple is built in white marbles, and was planned by Madan Mohan Malviya, the founder of the Banaras Hindu University. The most important characteristic of the new Vishwanath temple is that it is open to people from all castes and religions. The huge campus of New Vishwanath Temple is a delight to the eyes of visitor. The interior has a Siva lingam and verses from Hindu scriptures are inscribed on the walls. The temple is one of the tallest in India with its tower being the tallest in the world. Total height of the temple is 77 meters and its design was inspired by Shri Kashi Vishwanath Mandir being made mostly of marble. The walls of temple are adorned with magnificent figures of Hindu Gods and Goddesses and verses from Geeta.

Timing: 4:00 AM to 12:00 PM and 1:00 PM to 9:00 PM. (On Shivratri 4:00 AM to midnight)
Aartis Timeing - 4:00 AM, 4.45 AM, 10.30 AM, 11.45 AM, 12:00 PM, 1:00 PM, 6.45 PM, 7.30 PM, 8:00 PM and 8.45 pm.
On every Monday special Aarti with Rudrabhishek is organized from 7:00 am to 8:00 am. 

Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple--------
Sankat Mochan temple is one of the sacred temples of Varanasi. It is located in the southern part of Varanasi, near the Banaras Hindu University. It is dedicated to the Hindu God, Hanuman. The meaning of the Sankat Mochan is relief from all the problems (Sankat means problem and Mochan means relief giver). Sankat Mochan Temple was constructed by the educationist and freedom fighter Pt. Madan Mohan Malviya (the founder of the BHU) in the early 1900s. Every Tuesday and Saturday, thousands of devotees queue up in front of the Sankat Mochan temple to offer prayers to Lord Hanuman. 

In the mandir, special offerings are sold like the special "besan ke ladoo" (sweets). Also Hanuman ji is offered with marigold flower garland. Outside the temple, there are many vendors who sell pendants, rings, incense and holy flowers to the devotees. 

The Hanuman Jayanti (birthday of the Lord Hanuman) is celebrated every year by organizing a special Shobha Yatra (a parade) from Durga temple (Durga Kund) to the Sankat Mochan Temple. 

Each year in the month of April, the temple organizes a classic music and dance concert festival titled, "Sankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh", in which musicians and performers from all over India take part. The first festival was organized in 1975, and since then it was attract numerous stalwarts of Indian classical music and dance world, including Odissi guru, Kelucharan Mahapatra, who was associated since its early days. In fact he was instrumental in starting women's participation in the festival with Sanjukta Panigrahi, Swapna Sundari and Kankana Banerjee.

In 2009, the six day concert saw over 35 artist including, vocalist Pandit Jasraj and Kathak exponent Pandit Birju Maharaj.

The 2010 concert was spread over five days, during which artists like, Pandit Jasraj, Sunanda Patnayak, Pt. Channulal Mishra, Pt. Rajan-Sajan Mishra performed.

Arati is performed daily at 6:30am and 6:00pm


Tulsi Manas Mandir------------
Tulsi Manas Mandir is one of the most famous temples in Varanasi. It is located at Durgakund very close to the Durga Temple in the Varanasi city.  It was built in white marble in the year 1964. The temple has been made more charming by the magnificent landscaping around it. The Tulsi Manas temple is dedicated to lord Ram. The temple has beautiful images of the Ram, Sita, Lakshhman and Hanuman. The walls of the Tulsi Manas temple are engraved with verses and scenes from the Ramcharitammanasa, the Hindi version of the Ramayana. 


Timing - 5.30 AM to 12:00 PM and 3.30 PM to 9:30 PM
Aarti time is: 6:00 am in the morning and 4:00 pm in the evening.

-----------Hill stations in india--------
Nainital
Shimla
Manali
Kullu
Mussoorie
Almora
Chamba
Badrinath
Ranikhet
Gulmarg
Dharamshala
Dalhousie
Lansdowne
Auli
Darjeeling
Gangtok
Kalimpong
Shillong
Tawang
Mirik
Khandala
Lonavala
Mahabaleshwar
Matheran
Panchgani
Mount Abu
Panhala
Saputara
Munnar
Aruku Valley 
Coonoor
Coorg
Devikulam
Idukki
Kodaikanal
Ooty
Peermade
Nandi Hills
Horsley Hills
Pahalgam, Jammu & Kashmir
Munnar, Kerala
Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir
Shillong, Meghalaya
Kodaikanal, Tamil Nadu
Mount Abu, Rajasthan
Ooty, Tamil Nadu
Valparai, Tamil Nadu
Champawat, Uttarakhand
Yercaud, Tamil Nadu
Mussoorie, Uttarakhand
Nainital, Uttarakhand
Darjeeling, West Bengal
Kurseong, West Bengal
Manali, Himachal Pradesh
Gulmarg, Jammu & Kashmir
Khajjiar, Himachal Pradesh
Keylong, Himachal Pradesh
Aizwal, Mizoram
Jogindernagar, Himachal Pradesh
Dharamkot, Himachal Pradesh
Gangtok, Sikkim
Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh
Pelliang, Sikkim
Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh
Tawang Town, Arunachal Pradesh
Thekaddy, Kerala
Dalhousie, Himachal Pradesh
Lavasa, Maharashtra
Chikmagalur, Karnataka
Chopta, Uttarakhand
Chail, Himachal Pradesh
Palampur, Himachal Pradesh
Champhai, Mizoram
Amboli, Maharashtra
Coorg, Karnataka
Coonoor, Tamil Nadu
Saputara, Gujarat
Sonmarg, Jammu & Kashmir
Panchgani, Maharastra
Shimla, Himachal Pradesh
Horsley Hills, Andhra Pradesh
Khandala, Maharashtra
Mahabaleshwar, Maharashtra
Yusmarg, Jammu & Kashmir
Pachmarhi, Madhya Pradesh
Almora, Uttarakhand
Kotagiri, Tamil Nadu
Mirik, West Bengal
Matheran, Maharastra
Auli, Uttarakhand
Cherrapunjee, Meghalaya
Lonavala, Maharashtra
Araku Valley, Andhra Pradesh
Ziro, Arunachal Pradesh
Chamba, Himachal Pradesh
Kufri, Himachal Pradesh
Yelagiri
Kausani
Lansdowne
Kullu
Ranikhet


Beaches--
	Gujarat
		Dumas Beach
		Suvali Beach
		Umbharat Beach
		Dandi Beach
		Dabhari beach
		Diu Beach
		Tithal Beach
		Mandavi Beach
		Khambhat Beach
	Maharashtra
		Aksa Beach
		Alibaug Beach
		Gorai Beach
		Juhu beach
		Manori Beach
		Marvé Beach
		Versova Beach
		Agardanda Beach
		Diveagar Beach
		Ganpatipule Beach
		Guhagar Beach
		Kelwa Beach
		Tarkarli Beach
			Marine Lines Beach
			Shivaji Park Beach
	Goa
		Agonda Beach
		Arambol Beach
		Benaulim Beach
		Cavelossim Beach
		Chapora Beach
		Mandrem Beach
		Palolem Beach
		Varca Beach
		Baga Beach
		Candolim Beach
		Calangute Beach
		Colva Beach
		Miramar Beach, Goa
	Karnataka
		Karwar Beach
		Kudle beach
		Panambur Beach
		NITK Beach
		Sasihithlu Beach
		Maravanthe Beach
		Tannirubhavi Beach
		Malpe Beach
		Murudeshwara Beach
		Apsarakonda Beach
		Om Beach, Gokarna
		Kaup Beach
		Someshwar Beach
		St Mary's Island Beach
		Mukka Beach
		Ullal beach
	Kerala
		Alappuzha Beach
		Bekal Fort Beach
		Chavakkad Beach
		Cherai Beach
		Fort Kochi beach
		Kollam Beach
		Kanhangad Beach
		Marari beach
		Meenkunnu Beach
		Muzhappilangad Beach
		Payyambalam Beach
		Saddam Beach
		Shangumughom Beach
		Snehatheeram Beach
		Thekkumbhagam-Kappil Beach
		Thirumullavaram Beach
		Kovalam Beach
		Kannur Beach
		Kappad Beach
		Verkala Beach

	West Bengal
		Mandarmani beach
		Digha beach
		Bakkhali beach
	Odisha
		Gahirmatha Beach
		Gopalpur-on-Sea
		Puri Beach
		Talsari Beach
		Konark Beach
	Andhra Pradesh
		Bheemili Beach
		Kalingapatnam Beach
		Koduru beach
		Manginapudi Beach
		Mypadu Beach
		Perupalem Beach
		Rama Puram Beach
		Ramakrishna Mission Beach
		Rushikonda Beach
		Sagarnagar beach
		Suryalanka Beach
		Tenneti Park Beach
		Uppada Beach
		Vodarevu Beach
		Yarada Beach
		Antarvedi Beach
	Tamil Nadu
		Dhanushkodi Beach
		Elliot's Beach
		Golden Beach, Chennai
		Marina Beach
		Silver Beach
		Covelong Beach
		Basin Nagar Beach
		Mahabalipuram Beach
	Pondicherry
		Promenade Beach
		Karaikal Beach
		Yanam Beach
	Andaman and Nicobar Islands
		Radhanagar Beach
	Lakshadweep islands
		Bangaram beach

Nature & wildlife---
	Ranthambore National Park, Rajasthan
	Sunderbans National Park, West Bengal
	Jim Corbett National Park, Uttarakhand
	Bannerghatta Biological Park, Karnataka
	Kaziranga National Park, Assam
	Periyar National Park, Kerala
	Bandhavgarh National Park, Madhya Pradesh
	Hemis National Park, Jammu Kashmir
	The Great Himalayan National Park, Himachal Pradesh
	Tadoba National Park, Maharashtra
	Nanda Devi Park, Uttarakhand
	Khangchendzonga, Sikkim
	Bandipur National Park, Karnataka
	Nagarhole National Park, Karnataka
	Kudremukh National Park, Karnataka
	Silent Valley National Park, Kerala
	Mathikettan Shola National Park, Kerala
	Guindy National Park, Tamil Nadu
	Mudumalai National Park, Tamil Nadu
	Mukurthi National Park, Tamil Nadu
	Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, Tamil Nadu
	Sri Venkateswara National Park, Andhra Pradesh
	Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park, Telangana
	Mahavir Harina Vanasthali National Park, Telangana
	Panna National Park
	Dudhwa National Park
	Gangotri National Park
	Simlipal National Park
	Mouling National Park
	Rajaji National Park
	Velavadar National Park
	Sasan-Gir Wildlife Sanctuary, Gujarat
	Kanha National Park, Madhya Pradesh
	Manas Wildlife Sanctuary, Assam
	Pench National Park, Madhya Pradesh
	Satpura National Park, Madhya Pradesh

Adventures-
	Rajasthan
	Rishikesh
	Ladakh
	Dandeli
	Sikkim
	Manali
	Meghalaya
	Karnataka
	Gulmarg
	Auli
	Arunachal Pradesh
	Goa
	Andaman Islands
	Lakshadweep
	Kerala 
	Mysore
	Madhya Pradesh
	Jaisalmer


Top Most Famous Amusement Parks In India
	Essel World -Mumbai
	Wonderla -Bangalore
	Veegaland -Kochi
	Adlabs Imagica -Pune/Mumbai
	Appu Ghar -New Delhi
	Adventure Islands, Delhi
	Queens Land -Chennai
	Aquatica -Kolkata
	Nicco Park, Kolkata
	Maniar Wonderland -Ahmedabad
	Ramoji Film City -Hyderabad
	Funtasia Water Park -Patna
	AppuGhar -Jaipur
	Worlds of Wonder -Noida
	Kingdom of Dreams, Gurgaon
	Gujarat Science City, Ahmedabad 
	Snow World, Hyderabad 
	Fun 'N' Food Village, Delhi
	Baywatch, Kanyakumari
	Shanku's Water Park, Ahmedabad 
	Splash Water Park, Delhi
	Jurasik Park Inn, Sonepat
	MGM Dizzee World, Chennai
	Aquatica Amusement Park
	Appu Ghar Oysters Beach Park, Gurgaon
